# fall-detection-with-panic-button-and-pulse-sensor-for-elderly
The major cause of injury and accidental deaths in old people is due to unexpected fall. According to recent statistics, majority of serious consequences are not due to direct fall but due to lack of immediate attention and treatment. Post-fall consequences can be reduced if relief personnel are alerted in time. Many modern old people prefer living alone independently after their children have grown up and leave home. It is so common that after a fall an elderly is unable to get up by themselves or contact someone for help. Thus, there is a need for an automated fall detection system such that he or she can summon help when they are unable to get up or is unconscious.

Many algorithms have already been developed but still it is difficult to differentiate real falls from certain activities such as sitting quickly, jumping which results in many false positives, as it uses accelerometer to detect fall with body orientation as ending position is not always horizontal. E.g. fall on stairs.
The fall detection algorithm can be developed is using both accelerometer and gyroscope reducing both false positives and false negatives, while improving fall detection accuracy. It notifies a concern person with SMS either automatic when fall occurs or with a panic button.

With the advancement and development in medical field, resulting in increase in life expectancy. So, demand for health care of elderly rises. As we know that, elderly people are suffering from diseases that require attention and, in most cases, fall leads to many casualties. So, hiring the personal care taker is costly and elderly needs attention in case of medical emergency. The purpose of this project is to design a device which will track the location of patient using Global Positioning System and send the details using wireless network (GSM) and send the detail to their care takers in case of fall. Design consists of sensor like accelerometer, along with pulse sensor to know whether the pulse is normal.
